foreign
about https that these days most
websites require it how does https work
we'll answer this question in this video
Let's Dive Right In
without https the communication between
the browser and the server is in plain
text this means that the password you
enter or the credit card number you send
over the internet can be read by anyone
who has the ability to intercept it
https is designed to solve this problem
to make the data sent over the Internet
unreadable by anyone other than the
sender and the receiver
https is an extension of the HTTP
protocol we discussed HTTP in an earlier
video check the description it would
like to learn more about it with https
data is sending an encrypted form using
something called TLS TLS stands for
transport layer security
if the encrypted data gets intercepted
by a hacker all they could see is jumbo
data
let's take a look at how the TLs
handshake works there are several steps
step one just like in the case for HTTP
the browser establishes a TCP connection
with the server
step two this is where the TLs handshake
begins the process sends a client hello
to the server in this Hello message the
browser tells the server the following
things
one what TLS version it can support it
could be TLS 1.2 TLS 1.3 Etc
two what cyber Suite he supports a cyber
Suite is a set of encryption algorithms
to use to encrypt data
they're receiving the client hello the
server gets to choose the Cyber suite
and the TLs version to use based on the
options it got from the client it sends
those in the server Hollow message back
to the client
the server then sends the certificate to
the client the certificate includes a
lot of different things one of the key
things is the public key for the server
the client uses the public key in
something called asymmetric encryption
in a symmetric encryption a piece of
data that is encrypted by a public key
can only be decrypted by the private key
we'll discuss how this is used in a bit
this concludes step two the hollow phase
of the TLs handshake at this point the
client has a service certificate
and the client and server have agreed on
the TLs version and the Cyber Suite to
use
now to step three this is the step where
the client and the server come up with a
share encryption key to use to encrypt
data
and this is where the asymmetric
encryption come into the picture again
with a symmetric encryption the data
encrypted on the client side using the
public key from the server can only be
decrypted by the server this is how the
client sends an encryption key safely to
the server over the wide open internet
all this is done in the client key
exchange message the exact detail varies
depending on the Cyber Suite used here
we use RSA as an example since it is the
easiest to understand
with RSA the client generates an
encryption key also called a session key
encrypts it with the server public key
and sensor encrypted session key to the
server over the Internet the server
receives the encrypted session key and
decrypts it with its private key now
both sides hold the session key and this
is where they enter step 4 of the TLs
handshake where they use the session key
and agree upon cyber Suite to send
encrypted data back and forth in a
secure bi-directional Channel
now you may ask why don't we just use a
symmetric encryption for everything why
switch to symmetric encryption at all
the main reason is that asymmetric
encryption is computationally expensive
it is not really suitable for bulk data
transmission
before we close there are two final
points I would like to discuss first the
handshake we talked about applied to TLS
1.2 while the latest version is TLS 1.3
and TLS 1.3 is supported on all major
browsers as we can see in our
illustration TRS 1.2 takes two network
round trips to complete this is one of
the major improvements of TLS 1.3 it
optimizes the handshake to reduce the
number of network round trips to one
we decided to talk about TLS 1.2 because
we reviewed TRS 1.3 as in optimization
as with most optimizations it is a bit
harder to explain that's why we chose
TRS 1.2 Instead The Core Concepts in TLS
1.2 still applies to TLS 1.3
the second final Point we'd like to
discuss is that in the explanation above
we use RSA for asymmetric encryption to
securely exchange the symmetric session
key again we chose to RSA because it is
easy to understand however asymmetric
encryption is not the only way to share
the session key between the client and
the server in fact in TLS 1.3 RSA is no
longer supported as the a method for key
exchange diffie-hellman is a more common
way nowadays for exchanging session keys
Tiffy helmet is complicated but in a
nutshell it uses some advanced math
involving large prime numbers to derive
a share session key without ever
transmitting a public key over the
network
this is it for https
you would like to learn more about
system design check out our books and
free Weekly Newsletter Please Subscribe
you learn something new thank you so
much and we'll see you next time